Capetown :: Ordinary City

Capetown is one of three Capitals of South Africa with nearly five-million residents dwelling there.

Capetown is considered a Secondary Global City (Gibb 2007). 
However, it shares aspects with a decidedly more global city: Delhi.


Both of these are considerably fragmented with regards to their built environment.
For example, looking at a map of Cape Town c.2000 one can clearly see large gaps and fragmentation of development between the 
CBD and the eastern half of the city. Similarly, in Delhi we see a large central fissure splitting the city
as well as radial fragments of development (Dupont 2005, pp.282-284).
While each city shares this aspect--they are still each unique.

From analyzing this shared property however, one can extrapolate a deeper connection.
If one took each city and compared their distribution of race to the distribution of income in the city,
one would find that they are largely the same map; where white people made up the areas of high income.(Dupont 2005, p.290).
These statistics are indicative of the mode for founding of each city: Colonialism.

Each city was founded by the British Empire in order to facilitate the management and exploitation
the respective surrounding areas. Furthermore, at their inception these cities were deeply segregated,(Dupont 2005, p.285)
with the white invaders sectioning off swaths of the to-be-developed city for each respective race.
Particularly, in Capetown--due to Policy Mobility (Hall 2015)--a form of the Garden City 
theory was implemented in its later development; however this form emphasized visual harmony and
homogeneity while disregarding the inclusive nature of the theory (Dupont 2005, p.286). This resulted in 
the creation of 'racially homogeneous' slums or 'Townships' at the outskirts of the city with buffer areas to 
further Separate the individual communities.

Thus we can see there is a possible existing problem in cities that were formed by colonization which is:
poor land management as a result of prior or present segregation. While disriminatory policy still exists in
Capetown, there are solutions being implemented there that could be used in other post-colonial
cities. Currently, there is a push to implement new land use policy called 
'inclusionary zoning' which would allow the public sector to reap the benefeits of a land value increase
due to an action taken by the public sector (like building a new transit line etc.). (Jason 2019) This would allow for 
larger public projects to improve poorly planned areas and it will only increase the revenue gained through 
the Inclusionary zoning policy.


=-=-=-=Sources=-=-=-=

Dupont, V., &amp; Houssay-Holzschuch, M. (2005). Fragmentation and access to the city : Cape Town and Delhi ... Horizon Documentation. Retrieved February 5, 2022, from https://horizon.documentation.ird.fr/exl-doc/pleins_textes/divers17-07/010046721.pdf 
Jason, W. (2019, October 18). In South Africa, a more inclusive city begins with land. LILP. Retrieved February 5, 2022, from https://www.lincolninst.edu/publications/articles/how-new-land-policy-could-help-unwind-apartheid-in-cape-town-south-africa 
Lemanski, C. (2020). Urbanism, Comparative. In A. Kobayashi (Ed.), International Encyclopedia of Human Geography (Second Edition, Vol. Fourteen Volume Set, pp. 131–134). essay, elsevier.
Hall, P. (2015). Global Flows: Making the City, Made in the City. In P. Filion et al. (Eds), Canadian Cities in Transition: Perspectives for an Urban Age (Fifth Edition) (pp. 38—50). Oxford University Press. (e-reserve)
